docs/docs/configuration/zones.md, before:

---
id: zones
title: Zones
---

Zones allow you to define a specific area of the frame and apply additional filters for object types so you can determine whether or not an object is within a particular area. Presence in a zone is evaluated based on the bottom center of the bounding box for the object. It does not matter how much of the bounding box overlaps with the zone.

For example, the cat in this image is currently in Zone 1, but **not** Zone 2.
![bottom center](/img/bottom-center.jpg)

Zones cannot have the same name as a camera. If desired, a single zone can include multiple cameras if you have multiple cameras covering the same area by configuring zones with the same name for each camera.

During testing, enable the Zones option for the Debug view of your camera (Settings --> Debug) so you can adjust as needed. The zone line will increase in thickness when any object enters the zone.

To create a zone, follow [the steps for a "Motion mask"](masks.md), but use the section of the web UI for creating a zone instead.

### Restricting alerts and detections to specific zones

Often you will only want alerts to be created when an object enters areas of interest. This is done using zones along with setting required_zones. Let's say you only want to have an alert created when an object enters your entire_yard zone, the config would be:

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    review:
      alerts:
        required_zones:
          - entire_yard
    zones:
      entire_yard:
        friendly_name: Entire yard # You can use characters from any language text
        coordinates: ...
```

You may also want to filter detections to only be created when an object enters a secondary area of interest. This is done using zones along with setting required_zones. Let's say you want alerts when an object enters the inner area of the yard but detections when an object enters the edge of the yard, the config would be

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    review:
      alerts:
        required_zones:
          - inner_yard
      detections:
        required_zones:
          - edge_yard
    zones:
      edge_yard:
        friendly_name: Edge yard # You can use characters from any language text
        coordinates: ...
      inner_yard:
        friendly_name: Inner yard # You can use characters from any language text
        coordinates: ...
```

### Restricting snapshots to specific zones

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    snapshots:
      required_zones:
        - entire_yard
    zones:
      entire_yard:
        friendly_name: Entire yard
        coordinates: ...
```

### Restricting zones to specific objects

Sometimes you want to limit a zone to specific object types to have more granular control of when alerts, detections, and snapshots are saved. The following example will limit one zone to person objects and the other to cars.

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      entire_yard:
        coordinates: ... (everywhere you want a person)
        objects:
          - person
      front_yard_street:
        coordinates: ... (just the street)
        objects:
          - car
```

Only car objects can trigger the `front_yard_street` zone and only person can trigger the `entire_yard`. Objects will be tracked for any `person` that enter anywhere in the yard, and for cars only if they enter the street.


### Zone Loitering

Sometimes objects are expected to be passing through a zone, but an object loitering in an area is unexpected. Zones can be configured to have a minimum loitering time after which the object will be considered in the zone.

:::note

When using loitering zones, a review item will behave in the following way:
- When a person is in a loitering zone, the review item will remain active until the person leaves the loitering zone, regardless of if they are stationary.
- When any other object is in a loitering zone, the review item will remain active until the loitering time is met. Then if the object is stationary the review item will end.

:::

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      sidewalk:
        loitering_time: 4 # unit is in seconds
        objects:
          - person
```

### Zone Inertia

Sometimes an objects bounding box may be slightly incorrect and the bottom center of the bounding box is inside the zone while the object is not actually in the zone. Zone inertia helps guard against this by requiring an object's bounding box to be within the zone for multiple consecutive frames. This value can be configured:

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      front_yard:
        inertia: 3
        objects:
          - person
```

There may also be cases where you expect an object to quickly enter and exit a zone, like when a car is pulling into the driveway, and you may want to have the object be considered present in the zone immediately:

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      driveway_entrance:
        inertia: 1
        objects:
          - car
```

### Speed Estimation

Frigate can be configured to estimate the speed of objects moving through a zone. This works by combining data from Frigate's object tracker and "real world" distance measurements of the edges of the zone. The recommended use case for this feature is to track the speed of vehicles on a road as they move through the zone.

Your zone must be defined with exactly 4 points and should be aligned to the ground where objects are moving.

![Ground plane 4-point zone](/img/ground-plane.jpg)

Speed estimation requires a minimum number of frames for your object to be tracked before a valid estimate can be calculated, so create your zone away from places where objects enter and exit for the best results. The object's bounding box must be stable and remain a constant size as it enters and exits the zone. _Your zone should not take up the full frame, and the zone does **not** need to be the same size or larger than the objects passing through it._ An object's speed is tracked while it passes through the zone and then saved to Frigate's database.

Accurate real-world distance measurements are required to estimate speeds. These distances can be specified in your zone config through the `distances` field.

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      street:
        coordinates: 0.033,0.306,0.324,0.138,0.439,0.185,0.042,0.428
        distances: 10,12,11,13.5 # in meters or feet
```

Each number in the `distance` field represents the real-world distance between the points in the `coordinates` list. So in the example above, the distance between the first two points ([0.033,0.306] and [0.324,0.138]) is 10. The distance between the second and third set of points ([0.324,0.138] and [0.439,0.185]) is 12, and so on. The fastest and most accurate way to configure this is through the Zone Editor in the Frigate UI.

The `distance` values are measured in meters (metric) or feet (imperial), depending on how `unit_system` is configured in your `ui` config:

```yaml
ui:
  # can be "metric" or "imperial", default is metric
  unit_system: metric
```

The average speed of your object as it moved through your zone is saved in Frigate's database and can be seen in the UI in the Tracked Object Details pane in Explore. Current estimated speed can also be seen on the debug view as the third value in the object label (see the caveats below). Current estimated speed, average estimated speed, and velocity angle (the angle of the direction the object is moving relative to the frame) of tracked objects is also sent through the `events` MQTT topic. See the [MQTT docs](../integrations/mqtt.md#frigateevents).

These speed values are output as a number in miles per hour (mph) or kilometers per hour (kph). For miles per hour, set `unit_system` to `imperial`. For kilometers per hour, set `unit_system` to `metric`.

#### Best practices and caveats

- Speed estimation works best with a straight road or path when your object travels in a straight line across that path. Avoid creating your zone near intersections or anywhere that objects would make a turn.
- Create a zone where the bottom center of your object's bounding box travels directly through it and does not become obscured at any time.
- A large zone can be used (as in the photo example above), but it may cause inaccurate estimation if the object's bounding box changes shape (such as when it turns or becomes partially hidden). Generally it's best to make your zone large enough to capture a few frames, but small enough so that the bounding box doesn't change size as it enters, travels through, and exits the zone.
- Depending on the size and location of your zone, you may want to decrease the zone's `inertia` value from the default of 3.
- The more accurate your real-world dimensions can be measured, the more accurate speed estimation will be. However, due to the way Frigate's tracking algorithm works, you may need to tweak the real-world distance values so that estimated speeds better match real-world speeds.
- Once an object leaves the zone, speed accuracy will likely decrease due to perspective distortion and misalignment with the calibrated area. Therefore, speed values will show as a zero through MQTT and will not be visible on the debug view when an object is outside of a speed tracking zone.
- The speeds are only an _estimation_ and are highly dependent on camera position, zone points, and real-world measurements. This feature should not be used for law enforcement.

### Speed Threshold

Zones can be configured with a minimum speed requirement, meaning an object must be moving at or above this speed to be considered inside the zone. Zone `distances` must be defined as described above.

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      sidewalk:
        coordinates: ...
        distances: ...
        inertia: 1
        speed_threshold: 20 # unit is in kph or mph, depending on how unit_system is set (see above)
```

Commit message:

Masks and zones improvements (#22163)
* migrator and runtime config changes

* component changes to use rasterized_mask

* frontend

* convert none to empty string for config save

* i18n

* update tests

* add enabled config to zones

* zones frontend

* i18n

* docs

* tweaks

* use dashed stroke to indicate disabled

* allow toggle from icon

* use filelock to ensure atomic config updates from endpoint

* enforce atomic config update in the frontend

* toggle via mqtt

* fix global object masks

* correctly handle global object masks in dispatcher

* ws hooks

* render masks and zones based on ws enabled state

* use enabled_in_config for zones and masks

* frontend for enabled_in_config

* tweaks

* i18n

* publish websocket on config save

* i18n tweaks

* pydantic title and description

* i18n generation

* tweaks

* fix typing

docs/docs/configuration/zones.md, after:

---
id: zones
title: Zones
---

Zones allow you to define a specific area of the frame and apply additional filters for object types so you can determine whether or not an object is within a particular area. Presence in a zone is evaluated based on the bottom center of the bounding box for the object. It does not matter how much of the bounding box overlaps with the zone.

For example, the cat in this image is currently in Zone 1, but **not** Zone 2.
![bottom center](/img/bottom-center.jpg)

Zones cannot have the same name as a camera. If desired, a single zone can include multiple cameras if you have multiple cameras covering the same area by configuring zones with the same name for each camera.

## Enabling/Disabling Zones

Zones can be toggled on or off without removing them from the configuration. Disabled zones are completely ignored at runtime - objects will not be tracked for zone presence, and zones will not appear in the debug view. This is useful for temporarily disabling a zone during certain seasons or times of day without modifying the configuration.

During testing, enable the Zones option for the Debug view of your camera (Settings --> Debug) so you can adjust as needed. The zone line will increase in thickness when any object enters the zone.

To create a zone, follow [the steps for a "Motion mask"](masks.md), but use the section of the web UI for creating a zone instead.

### Restricting alerts and detections to specific zones

Often you will only want alerts to be created when an object enters areas of interest. This is done using zones along with setting required_zones. Let's say you only want to have an alert created when an object enters your entire_yard zone, the config would be:

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    review:
      alerts:
        required_zones:
          - entire_yard
    zones:
      entire_yard:
        friendly_name: Entire yard # You can use characters from any language text
        coordinates: ...
```

You may also want to filter detections to only be created when an object enters a secondary area of interest. This is done using zones along with setting required_zones. Let's say you want alerts when an object enters the inner area of the yard but detections when an object enters the edge of the yard, the config would be

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    review:
      alerts:
        required_zones:
          - inner_yard
      detections:
        required_zones:
          - edge_yard
    zones:
      edge_yard:
        friendly_name: Edge yard # You can use characters from any language text
        coordinates: ...
      inner_yard:
        friendly_name: Inner yard # You can use characters from any language text
        coordinates: ...
```

### Restricting snapshots to specific zones

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    snapshots:
      required_zones:
        - entire_yard
    zones:
      entire_yard:
        friendly_name: Entire yard
        coordinates: ...
```

### Restricting zones to specific objects

Sometimes you want to limit a zone to specific object types to have more granular control of when alerts, detections, and snapshots are saved. The following example will limit one zone to person objects and the other to cars.

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      entire_yard:
        coordinates: ... (everywhere you want a person)
        objects:
          - person
      front_yard_street:
        coordinates: ... (just the street)
        objects:
          - car
```

Only car objects can trigger the `front_yard_street` zone and only person can trigger the `entire_yard`. Objects will be tracked for any `person` that enter anywhere in the yard, and for cars only if they enter the street.

### Zone Loitering

Sometimes objects are expected to be passing through a zone, but an object loitering in an area is unexpected. Zones can be configured to have a minimum loitering time after which the object will be considered in the zone.

:::note

When using loitering zones, a review item will behave in the following way:

- When a person is in a loitering zone, the review item will remain active until the person leaves the loitering zone, regardless of if they are stationary.
- When any other object is in a loitering zone, the review item will remain active until the loitering time is met. Then if the object is stationary the review item will end.

:::

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      sidewalk:
        loitering_time: 4 # unit is in seconds
        objects:
          - person
```

### Zone Inertia

Sometimes an objects bounding box may be slightly incorrect and the bottom center of the bounding box is inside the zone while the object is not actually in the zone. Zone inertia helps guard against this by requiring an object's bounding box to be within the zone for multiple consecutive frames. This value can be configured:

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      front_yard:
        inertia: 3
        objects:
          - person
```

There may also be cases where you expect an object to quickly enter and exit a zone, like when a car is pulling into the driveway, and you may want to have the object be considered present in the zone immediately:

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      driveway_entrance:
        inertia: 1
        objects:
          - car
```

### Speed Estimation

Frigate can be configured to estimate the speed of objects moving through a zone. This works by combining data from Frigate's object tracker and "real world" distance measurements of the edges of the zone. The recommended use case for this feature is to track the speed of vehicles on a road as they move through the zone.

Your zone must be defined with exactly 4 points and should be aligned to the ground where objects are moving.

![Ground plane 4-point zone](/img/ground-plane.jpg)

Speed estimation requires a minimum number of frames for your object to be tracked before a valid estimate can be calculated, so create your zone away from places where objects enter and exit for the best results. The object's bounding box must be stable and remain a constant size as it enters and exits the zone. _Your zone should not take up the full frame, and the zone does **not** need to be the same size or larger than the objects passing through it._ An object's speed is tracked while it passes through the zone and then saved to Frigate's database.

Accurate real-world distance measurements are required to estimate speeds. These distances can be specified in your zone config through the `distances` field.

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      street:
        coordinates: 0.033,0.306,0.324,0.138,0.439,0.185,0.042,0.428
        distances: 10,12,11,13.5 # in meters or feet
```

Each number in the `distance` field represents the real-world distance between the points in the `coordinates` list. So in the example above, the distance between the first two points ([0.033,0.306] and [0.324,0.138]) is 10. The distance between the second and third set of points ([0.324,0.138] and [0.439,0.185]) is 12, and so on. The fastest and most accurate way to configure this is through the Zone Editor in the Frigate UI.

The `distance` values are measured in meters (metric) or feet (imperial), depending on how `unit_system` is configured in your `ui` config:

```yaml
ui:
  # can be "metric" or "imperial", default is metric
  unit_system: metric
```

The average speed of your object as it moved through your zone is saved in Frigate's database and can be seen in the UI in the Tracked Object Details pane in Explore. Current estimated speed can also be seen on the debug view as the third value in the object label (see the caveats below). Current estimated speed, average estimated speed, and velocity angle (the angle of the direction the object is moving relative to the frame) of tracked objects is also sent through the `events` MQTT topic. See the [MQTT docs](../integrations/mqtt.md#frigateevents).

These speed values are output as a number in miles per hour (mph) or kilometers per hour (kph). For miles per hour, set `unit_system` to `imperial`. For kilometers per hour, set `unit_system` to `metric`.

#### Best practices and caveats

- Speed estimation works best with a straight road or path when your object travels in a straight line across that path. Avoid creating your zone near intersections or anywhere that objects would make a turn.
- Create a zone where the bottom center of your object's bounding box travels directly through it and does not become obscured at any time.
- A large zone can be used (as in the photo example above), but it may cause inaccurate estimation if the object's bounding box changes shape (such as when it turns or becomes partially hidden). Generally it's best to make your zone large enough to capture a few frames, but small enough so that the bounding box doesn't change size as it enters, travels through, and exits the zone.
- Depending on the size and location of your zone, you may want to decrease the zone's `inertia` value from the default of 3.
- The more accurate your real-world dimensions can be measured, the more accurate speed estimation will be. However, due to the way Frigate's tracking algorithm works, you may need to tweak the real-world distance values so that estimated speeds better match real-world speeds.
- Once an object leaves the zone, speed accuracy will likely decrease due to perspective distortion and misalignment with the calibrated area. Therefore, speed values will show as a zero through MQTT and will not be visible on the debug view when an object is outside of a speed tracking zone.
- The speeds are only an _estimation_ and are highly dependent on camera position, zone points, and real-world measurements. This feature should not be used for law enforcement.

### Speed Threshold

Zones can be configured with a minimum speed requirement, meaning an object must be moving at or above this speed to be considered inside the zone. Zone `distances` must be defined as described above.

```yaml
cameras:
  name_of_your_camera:
    zones:
      sidewalk:
        coordinates: ...
        distances: ...
        inertia: 1
        speed_threshold: 20 # unit is in kph or mph, depending on how unit_system is set (see above)
```
